Private Blockchain Addresses (Dark Blockchain)

PBA - encrypted blockchain address only visible to the owner / sender and receiver.

Proposed anonymity feature : The Dark Blockchain / Private Blockchain Addresses

The Dark Blockchain
-------------------

1.0 Introduction - Anonymity Leakage
------------------------------------

Bitcoin, Litecoin and Feathercoin, like most coins, have public visible transactions and addresses. i.e. a visible or "Light Blockchain". In the Feathercoin blockchain it is possible to see the transactions for each address and the amount they contain. Pseudo anonymity is maintained because the public viewer does not know who controls the addresses.

Because information is leaked through other channels, particularly when funds / coins are transferred, this reduces the perceived pseudo anonymity of the coins and transactions. It is both more secure and ethical to reduce exposure to exploits that reduced privacy might engender, if that is possible.

2.0 Encrypting Addresses - how this could work
----------------------------------------------

The idea of developing PBA is to investigate whether it is possible to have a "Dark Blockchain" such that only the sender and receiver of coins can see unencrypted details of a transaction.

The advantage for anonymity in using a Dark Blockchain is that, it  would reduces the number of people who have access to information that a transaction has taken place and to what amounts are sent to which addresses.

To achieve this, in the Dark Blockchain, the full blockchain is encrypted. It is also possible to have a blockchain which contains both encrypted addresses and normal addresses.

Currently the fund amounts stored on the coin blockchains are unencrypted. The funds are to be encrypted with the new users address, as they are sent. The holder has the key to send the coins.

In the Dark Blockchain system it is proposed to have an extra level of encryption, so that only the owner or sender to the address has the key to view the address or the amount of coins in that address.

Currently when you look at the wallet you see all the amounts and addresses and you can go to a block chain viewer and see the same information.

In the Dark Blockchain, the web blockchain viewer will only show encrypted addresses and the amount of coins in that address will be also be encrypted.

The idea is that the "same" coin address is passed / viewed through different "encrypted keys" removing the leakage of private information to an outside observer. The wallet would search its normal open addresses in the blockchain, + it would search for the encrypted address of any private addresses. Your wallet would have the key to view the unencrypted private addresses in your wallet.

Only the sender owner and receiver will see the unencrypted amount and address in their wallet as their private address will be part of the multi-signature encryption of the address..

3.0 Enhancements - addition functionality to make the system usable 
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Initially it was envisaged that the address and amount of a designated private address would be encrypted in the blockchain. By using multi-signature and Public / Private key technology, you would pass that amount in the private address, to a public or private address based on the receivers preference. If sending to a public address is chosen the last address will be made public.

The disadvantage of the Dark Blockchain is that only the sender and receiver are aware a transaction took place. Users are trusting that the software performed the required action, since no third party can look at the web blockchain viewer and confirm the transaction.

However, where cryptographic currencies have now established a high level of security and trust in open source code methods, it would now be possible to implement Dark Blockchain features. In that, you don't have to inspect every block in the open blockchain to receive an amount of coins, the software is the arbiter of how many coins that address, holds wither it is visible publicly or not.

It would be possible to allow Dark Blockchain addresses as an upgrade to a running blockchain. Coins currently visible, could be sent to an encrypted address, if a user required the extra privacy. Users would be able to choose to send coins to an encrypted Dark Blockchain addresses if they wished, as an option. You would obviously need the correct wallet to view your encrypted addresses and see what is in them.

It would also be possible to release a viewing password, that let a trusted 3rd party such as your accountant, or Tax office, view the transactions.

Side chains are a proposal for Bitcoin 2.0. Side-chains would effectively be new blockchains that are backed by Bitcoins, in much the same way that fiat currencies used to be backed by gold. They could be backed by Feathercoin at that stage of development the Feathercoin client would include side chain facility.

So, one possibility is that Feathercoin could implement Dark Side Chains, assuming we can fully invent how  the Dark Blockchain / Dark Addresses will work. It would also be possible to also start a separate Dark Blockchain coin.

By being flexible, Feathercoin is making itself more relevant to it's community / distributed direction, for instance, by returning to GPU mining. Developing extra anonymity features is another area that could be beneficial to that philosophy. It is also an area that attract development assistance and finance from interested partners as the first major coin proposing such an update to increase user security / anonymity.

4.0 Possible further enhancements / problems
--------------------------------------------

A facility to send a "viewing password / address" to another user to prove funds, may be required to make the system production ready.

A facility to make the private encrypted address be a "Vanity Address" : which would make the address owner fully public.

A facility to make only the address encrypted not the coin amount.

It would also be possible to have mining payouts to Dark Blockchain addresses, as an option ..

The encrypted address may need to conform to a standard format so the coin type can still be identified, or not?.